okay now do you all remember last lesson
we were talking about Hebrew names and
their meanings
yes I remember we discussed about Abel
and how his name meant breath very good
do you think Abel's name characterized
him in any way
absolutely his life was short like a
breath because of his brother Cain very
good W thank you
at first I was slightly apprehensive
about taking this course but I decided
that I wanted to do this for myself
because I wanted to be able to read the
the Bible in its original context in its
original language and so I took the
introductory course and have never
looked back since
now today we are reading the story of
Noah and the flood and we're going to
see another example of how rich the text
is so Krista will you read for us sure
you know matzo Hyuna Manoir Lake of her
claw very good what was an unexpected
surprise for me was to discover the
richness of the Hebrew language it has
really made the scripture life for me in
a new exciting way
now I want to draw your attention to the
word Manoa which means rest now does
Manoa look or sound familiar Manoa yeah
it has the same letter Stern Ossining
yes it does well done now can you think
of a connection between the doves need
to find rest and Noah
well the Dove was tired because it had
spent the whole day looking for dry land
exactly so who did the Dove return to in
order to find rest the Deaf returned to
Nora wow that's beautiful
the Dove returned to Noah's hand I
didn't get that in my translation I know
you can only see these subtle echoes in
the original language I like to be there
right at the beginning when the students
begin their journey of discovering the
Hebrew language and understanding the
Hebrew Scriptures
you